this is your marketplace we're heading
to the scene of an accident with the
cops in Ottawa on the lookout for tow
truck drivers dirty tricks this accident
just happened but already seven tow
trucks have shown up as soon as the
police officers arrive they scatter
[Music]
Sergeant John Kish is a veteran traffic
cop and it's bad enough that we have two
cars blocking the intersection but then
we got six tow trucks in and sometimes
the drivers are under the trucks being
aggressive with each other with the with
the cars involved would you guys like a
pool assert six don't truck show up why
are they so desperate to get here first
the coalition tow is very lucrative to
these companies is worth six seven eight
hundred dollars to total vehicle and the
collision CD this is the thing that were
faced with time and time again day after
day with so much cash at stake are some
tow truck drivers using tricks to take
you for a ride
Aaron Moore's on her way to work she's a
makeup artist in Toronto suddenly the
car in front stops fast she rear-ended a
tow truck quickly shows up she says no
thanks and drive to a side street to
exchange info with the other driver but
the tow truck follows her he was saying
things like it may look fine like I know
it just looks like a little fender
bender but if a wheel falls off while
you're driving down the highway and
causes someone else to crash that's on
you so Aaron agrees to be towed to the
collision Reporting Center but somehow
the tow truck driver first takes her to
the wrong one an extra hour of towing
then he recommends he take her car here
to Taurus Auto Collision
I'm feverishly looking online for
reviews on this place
and I'm not finding anything good Aaron
wants to find out where her insurance
company wants her to go but the tow
truck driver takes her car around back
she texts a friend to come help not to
sound like the damsel in distress but I
wanted my guy friend there to lay down
the law and say give her her car back
but when her friend shows up the owner
locks the gate at that point she was
saying well you know what that's not a
$250 tow anymore and she starts upping
it
they finally negotiate a deal to get the
car back over $700 in cash
turns out all that extra towing adds up
to 217 dollars for mileage plus 250 for
the tow 60 for storage and just a tow
her car from the back of the auto body
shop out to the street an extra hundred
and three dollars
I felt duped I felt stupid felt tricked
who else will get tricked we're back on
the road in an unmarked car monitoring a
special police feed for accidents okay
let's see he's in a hurry right yes
aggressive tow trucks have become a
safety hazard racing to accidentally
look about it
blocking emergency crews that's why
Ottawa's got a bylaw tow trucks can't
come within 100 meters of an accident
unless they're called by the cops or a
driver they can be fined a hundred and
ninety dollars
Hey what are you doing here I was going
home actually
what is the bylaw say not
how close traitors believe in changing I
think this is more than I'd like to buy
yourself a tape measure find out myself
while Kish goes to pace it out it's a
very competitive to trying to get these
toes it comes down to to almost a race
and to you know to how well you are good
at you know talking to somebody ain't
kind of you know getting them to believe
whatever you can say after measuring
sergeant Kish says this driver is too
close fifty fifty paces from here then I
don't argue because if you want me to
I'll give you a goal get a tape measure
in charge so move on go the tow truck
driver starts to drive away but then
stops okay walks back to us looking for
Barla ticket I got a ticket
the gentleman didn't I wasn't there if I
can tell you what all the officers are
being told to do had a collision scene
and forced the by law we've got
never-ending public complaints about
what's happening at collision scenes
because it's out of control
arguing with police risking safety to
get to an accident we're about to learn
why for some tow truck drivers it's
worth it fitness trainers to Hill moon
lies driving his sports car just outside
Toronto when suddenly he's rear-ended
tow truck drivers just showed up and
within 5-10 minutes I was in shock a
little bit obviously so the tow truck
guys ago I hope you out no worries so he
made me feel a safe and stuff so he
lasts where he should take his car
there's his lion's body body shop I get
my car fixed there all the time they're
awesome
just take it there leave the car there
because it was a Saturday and they said
on Monday urine you can talk to your
insurance but on Monday when he tries to
get his car moved to a shop his
insurance company prefers Lions want
swapping storage fees for two days
eight thousand bugs he's stuck that's
when I realized something was really
wrong I went online I did my research
the reviews aren't exactly comforting
do not take your business to them they
held the car hostage do not let them
touch your car the repairs are only
supposed to take a month
[Music]
I bottle buddy hi there could I talk to
Brian please three months later he's
still trying to get his car back lion
says parts have been delayed
finally what he's been waiting to hear
for sure today though right but an hour
later Lions calls back
now they say Sahil can't have his car
seems his insurance company won't pay
the hefty bill so he gives them a call
his insurance agent says Lyons isn't
being very cooperative I think they're
hanging on to my car as leverage he
waits anxious about his car don't get
taken for a ride get hooked on
marketplace
[Music]
three months after his accident Sahil
Loula is still trying to get his car
back from the garage it was told to I'm
being serious about getting my car back
and I'll do whatever it takes he heads
into Lions auto body hey how's it going
secretly recording on his phone what why
it's not leaving my control just called
me and said you should go pick it up she
said that is between you and the
insurance policy you can meet I would
like my car back great yeah that's what
you do in this is bull
how's that for customer service so he'll
now wishes he hadn't let the tow truck
driver talk him into taking his car to
Lyons why would a tow truck operator
take a driver to a particular auto body
shop it's well-known that insert
elements of the towing industry and auto
body shops the auto body shops will give
kickback to tow truck drivers for
bringing them bringing them the business
so they're getting money for steering
drivers to a particular repair shop
that's not not uncommon argue that's
I've heard five hundred two thousand
dollars it's a lot of money what's in it
for the auto body shop
well they get the lucrative repair
contract when the average car can run 40
50 thousand dollars you there's nothing
to run up at ten fifteen twenty thousand
dollar repair bill what's five hundred
or thousand dollars that given to the to
the tow truck driver that brings into
business
easy to see why some tow truck drivers
are desperate to get you hooked back on
our ride-along
it's nearby we'll go check that one over
another accident comes across the police
feed up there looks like there's tow
trucks thank you remember Ottawa's by
law says tow trucks aren't allowed
within 100 meters of an accident unless
they've been called to the scene what
are you doing here are you trying to
make a living he said man have five kids
to support don't sit in your truck I
won't sit in your truck just wondering
did they call you to the toxins
personally that's what's that what's the
point a guys following us everywhere
well we're wondering if you're following
the bylaw so he just showed up here
without him actually calling you in
did you call this tow truck to the scene
no he said it he works for the Keith
he told you he worked with the police
and he showed up here by himself yeah
okay so this tow truck showed up at the
scene he said that he works with us and
he's about to hook up to this
gentleman's car which apart the cosmetic
damage of the bumper missing certainly
seems to be drivable at this stage what
do you feel about driving your car there
you go
drivable not the message they get from
the tow truck driver you just was
getting ready to tow it and then that
police officer showed up so if the
police officer hadn't shown up would you
have let him toll your car oh yeah I
wouldn't have known better
looks like we help this couple avoid a
tow truck in the nick of time but wait a
sec well here's another tow truck what
are you doing here what's up I lost a
100 meters either yeah 300 feet you're
closer now while this guy tries to scoop
some business the first tow truck driver
takes off the previous driver here
recommended that this car be towed and
now he's taking off this car doesn't
need to code actually he ran away from
ticket I came here to see accident yes I
want to go accident because I have two
kids I have like a property tax to me so
how much money is this little
fender-bender worth if you bring it to a
particular body shops what kind of
Commission do you get from the body shop
for bringing in business
me personally I don't I didn't deal with
that stuff I know that is many body shop
they pay money to bring them accidents
some people they bathe two to five
hundred dollars yes they do they bathe
the body shop they bathe the the tow
truck have you ever been offered that
Commission I got off and yes by refuse
how much were they offering
they offered me $300 yes
this is your marketplace we're revealing
how you can protect yourself from tow
tricks it's been nothing but headaches
for Sahil mullah since his car was towed
after an accident he's waited three
months to get it fixed
battled bad customer service now he's on
his way back to Lyons Auto Body
hopefully today I will walk out with my
car this time with an insurance check
for over thirteen thousand dollars money
talks I'm hoping money will be the
reason they'll release the vehicle today
you know they pull something then it's
it's gonna be another fight we go in
with him hidden cameras rolling how's it
going long time no see right though how
comes the owner John Lyons how are ya
I bet there's a little ding on the
quarter when they put the link it's all
shorty oh really
I think I can fix that in a week and a
half when the paint is hardened without
damaging because you don't want to come
back so that's it was this ding there
the last time or something happened
after three months the body shop damages
the car so sorry about that
so he'll can't believe it
if you look at it it's it's not good it
makes me angry like how do you have a
ding on a car before a customer supposed
to pick it up
I wouldn't tell anybody to go to the
shop ever I don't know how they're in
business they rely on tow trucks I guess
with that kind of service why would a
tow truck driver suggest anyone take
their car to Lyons we check out the
company that toads a Hills car Credit
Valley towing their tow truck driver
just said Lyons was a good shop but look
at all those Lyons tow trucks what's the
deal hi this is Anna to find out a
marker placed a forgives Credit Valley a
call when you take the vehicles to
different auto body shops gee you guys
sometimes get referral fees there's an
auto body shop called Lyons do you work
with them I noticed that they're on the
web site you do do you have an
arrangement with them so did they give
you
referral fees for bringing vehicles to
them Lyons doesn't want to talk to us on
camera so we pay them a visit
Brian Mehrotra is the manager who
handled the hills car Erica Johnson from
marketplace we wanted to talk about a
customer below a couple questions about
John will be back on Monday you can
speak to him at that time but what's
your position here at you a manager yes
so we're curious about your relationship
with tow truck operators there's no
relation there's nothing okay well are
you paying tow truck drivers to bring
customers here no shouldn't people know
when they're brought here that tow truck
drivers are secretly benefiting the
manager candidates running naked
[Music]
keeping people in the dark might explain
why Aaron Moore didn't know her tow
truck driver was also working for the
body shop
she got towed - it's been more than a
year since she had to pay over $700 to
get her car away from Taurus Auto
Collision at Oh Aaron didn't even need
Taurus tells us they have no
recollection of Aaron her car or the
dispute and that the tow truck driver
doesn't work there anymore hopefully
people see what happened to me and
they're just become more aware they
don't let it happen to them it was a
hard lesson for Aaron but there was a
silver lining that friend she called to
help rescue her car was so sweet
he's now her sweetie for years now the
Ontario government's been promising new
rules to protect people now due sometime
next year if you're in a crash don't get
hooked call the 1-800 number on your
insurance slip and get advice on where
to get towed so you're not at the whim
of tow tricks
[Music]